README.md, before:

# asynch-cv
Python3 library for asynchronous event-based computer vision applications.  

To install requirements, run `pip install -r ./requirements.txt`. Note that in order to read Metavision .RAW or .DAT files or connect to a Prophesee camera, you must install Metavision Designer separately.

To build, first run `python setup.py build_ext --inplace` to compile the cython extensions.

To run, simply execute one of the `test_*.py` scripts to see a demonstration.  

# Persistent Motion Detector
C++ application for event-based clustering and tracking. Takes streaming event data from an event camera in the form (x, y, p, t) and outputs a map of each cluster in the camera's field of view, as well as information and analysis results pertaining to a limited selection of clusters.

![](images/PersistentMotionDetector.png)

### Partitioning and Pre-Filter
Divides the field of view into **x_div** horizontal divisions, and **y_div** vertical partitions, resulting in a 2d partition grid. Each partition is assigned to an **EventHandler** instance, which can process events at a rate governed by **us_per_event**, or the number of microseconds allotted to each **EventHandler** instance to process each event. If events fall into a partition with greater frequency, subsequent events will be ignored. This "pre-filter" serves to limit rate of incoming events in each locality, so that especially event-dense partitions will not demand excessive processing.  

![](images/Partitioning.png)

### Correlational Filter
Each **EventHandler** instance stores every event it receives in a shared **EventBuffer**, which records the most recent **event_buffer_depth** events at each (x, y) location in the field of view. For each incoming event **(x, y, p, t)**, adjacent events in the buffer at locations from (**x**-1, **y**-1) to (**x**+1, **y**+1) are counted if their timestamps are within **tf**, or the filtering threshold, of **t**. If the count is at least **n**, then the incoming event will be assigned to a cluster. Otherwise, it will remain unassigned and be stored in the **EventBuffer** to be counted by future events.  
If an incoming event has enough adjacent events in the **EventBuffer**, then it will be assigned to a cluster.

### Clustering
When an **EventHandler** instance determines that an event has passed the Correlational Filter, it will be assigned to a cluster and its cluster id will be stored in the **EventBuffer** as well. For each incoming event **(x, y, p, t)**, adjacent events in the buffer at locations from (**x**-1, **y**-1) to (**x**+1, **y**+1) are considered if their timestamps are within **tc**, or the clustering threshold, of **t**. The event will be assigned to the adjacent cluster with the earliest birth time whose centroid is within **max_cluster_size** of (**x**, **y**) by manhattan distance. If there are no adjacent clusters, a new cluster id will be randomly selected and a new cluster will be initialized. The **ClusterBuffer** stores the "weight", or number of events belonging to each cluster; "birth", or timestamp of the initiating event; and sums of event positions for fast centroid calculation.

### Buffer Flushing
Every **buffer_flush_period** microseconds, events in the **EventBuffer** with timestamps older than **tc** are unassigned from their respective clusters. This ensures that the cluster centroid will track moving objects across the field of view, by only considering the most recent events.

### Cluster Analysis
After events are clustered, every active cluster is sorted by weight and birth time, and the first **num_cluster_analyzers** clusters in either order are each assigned to a **ClusterAnalyzer** instance for further processing. Once a cluster has been assigned to a **ClusterAnalyzer** it will not be unassigned until all events in the cluster have expired. Each **ClusterAnalyzer** instance will record the centroid of its cluster every **sample_period** microseconds, retaining a collection of past samples for the last **sample_collection_duration** microseconds. These samples are used to evaluate centroid movement over time and determine the significance of each cluster.

Commit message:

incorporated pascal_voc metrics from https://github.com/rafaelpadilla/review_object_detection_metrics

README.md, after:

# asynch-cv
Python3 library for asynchronous event-based computer vision applications.  

Note that in order to read Metavision .RAW or .DAT files or connect to a Prophesee camera, you must install Metavision Designer separately.

If using conda, an appropriate environment can be created with `conda env create --file async-cv.yml`.

To build, first execute `python setup.py build_ext --i` to compile the cython extensions.

Simply run one of the `test_*.py` scripts to see a demonstration.  

This software includes object detection metrics from https://github.com/rafaelpadilla/review_object_detection_metrics
Padilla R, Passos WL, Dias TLB, Netto SL, da Silva EAB. A Comparative Analysis of Object Detection Metrics with a Companion Open-Source Toolkit. Electronics. 2021; 10(3):279. https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics10030279

# Persistent Motion Detector
C++ application for event-based clustering and tracking. Takes streaming event data from an event camera in the form (x, y, p, t) and outputs a map of each cluster in the camera's field of view, as well as information and analysis results pertaining to a limited selection of clusters.

![](images/PersistentMotionDetector.png)

### Partitioning and Pre-Filter
Divides the field of view into **x_div** horizontal divisions, and **y_div** vertical partitions, resulting in a 2d partition grid. Each partition is assigned to an **EventHandler** instance, which can process events at a rate governed by **us_per_event**, or the number of microseconds allotted to each **EventHandler** instance to process each event. If events fall into a partition with greater frequency, subsequent events will be ignored. This "pre-filter" serves to limit rate of incoming events in each locality, so that especially event-dense partitions will not demand excessive processing.  

![](images/Partitioning.png)

### Correlational Filter
Each **EventHandler** instance stores every event it receives in a shared **EventBuffer**, which records the most recent **event_buffer_depth** events at each (x, y) location in the field of view. For each incoming event **(x, y, p, t)**, adjacent events in the buffer at locations from (**x**-1, **y**-1) to (**x**+1, **y**+1) are counted if their timestamps are within **tf**, or the filtering threshold, of **t**. If the count is at least **n**, then the incoming event will be assigned to a cluster. Otherwise, it will remain unassigned and be stored in the **EventBuffer** to be counted by future events.  
If an incoming event has enough adjacent events in the **EventBuffer**, then it will be assigned to a cluster.

### Clustering
When an **EventHandler** instance determines that an event has passed the Correlational Filter, it will be assigned to a cluster and its cluster id will be stored in the **EventBuffer** as well. For each incoming event **(x, y, p, t)**, adjacent events in the buffer at locations from (**x**-1, **y**-1) to (**x**+1, **y**+1) are considered if their timestamps are within **tc**, or the clustering threshold, of **t**. The event will be assigned to the adjacent cluster with the earliest birth time whose centroid is within **max_cluster_size** of (**x**, **y**) by manhattan distance. If there are no adjacent clusters, a new cluster id will be randomly selected and a new cluster will be initialized. The **ClusterBuffer** stores the "weight", or number of events belonging to each cluster; "birth", or timestamp of the initiating event; and sums of event positions for fast centroid calculation.

### Buffer Flushing
Every **buffer_flush_period** microseconds, events in the **EventBuffer** with timestamps older than **tc** are unassigned from their respective clusters. This ensures that the cluster centroid will track moving objects across the field of view, by only considering the most recent events.

### Cluster Analysis
After events are clustered, every active cluster is sorted by weight and birth time, and the first **num_cluster_analyzers** clusters in either order are each assigned to a **ClusterAnalyzer** instance for further processing. Once a cluster has been assigned to a **ClusterAnalyzer** it will not be unassigned until all events in the cluster have expired. Each **ClusterAnalyzer** instance will record the centroid of its cluster every **sample_period** microseconds, retaining a collection of past samples for the last **sample_collection_duration** microseconds. These samples are used to evaluate centroid movement over time and determine the significance of each cluster.
